societal saas pricing grant (#1671)
w3f/Grants-Program: applications/societal_saas_pricing.md

Societal will use this subcription based pricing system to charge the DAOs on its network a monthly fee, which will allow the DAOs members to interact on-chain without paying gas fees. This will bring current web2 pricing models to web3, increasing user experience and ease of adoption for DAOs, as their members will not have to pay gas fees or hold the chain token to interact with it.

### Milestone 1 — Subscription Pricing Pallet
- **Estimated Duration:** 1.5 month
- **FTE:**  2
- **Costs:** 20,000 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| -----: | ----------- | ------------- |
| 0a. | License | Apache 2.0 |
| 0b. | Documentation | We will provide both **inline documentation** of the code and a basic **tutorial** that explains how a user can (for example) spin up one of our Substrate nodes and send test transactions, which will show how the new functionality works. |
| 0c. | Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |
| 0d. | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |

> | 1. | Substrate module: Subscription Pricing Pallet | We will create a Substrate pallet that will require organizations on substrate chain's network to pay a monthly subscription, which will allow the organizations members to intereact on-chain without paying gas fees. The pallet will do four main things. It will accept a subscription payment from a DAO to the substrate chain's treasury. It will open or lock functions for the DAOs members based on if and when the payment has been made. It will have a time limit for these functions to be open, before another payment is required. Finally, it would specify a maximum amount of functions that can be executed before the functions are locked and another payment is required, preventing DDos attacks.|   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1. | Substrate module: Subscription Pricing Pallet | We will create a Substrate pallet that will require organizations on substrate chain's network to pay a monthly subscription, which will allow the organizations members to interact on-chain without paying gas fees. The pallet will do four main things. It will accept a subscription payment from a DAO to the substrate chain's treasury. It will open or lock functions for the DAOs members based on if and when the payment has been made. It will have a time limit for these functions to be open, before another payment is required. Finally, it would specify a maximum amount of function calls that can be executed before the functions are locked and another payment is required, preventing DDos attacks. |
```

| 0c. | Testing Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. |
| 0d. | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. |
| 0e. | Article | We will publish a tutorial that explains how to use and the functionality of the grant. |
| 1. | Substrate Module: Add Recurring Subcription Payment to Pallet | The main delivery of this milestone will be allowing the DAO to approve recurring subscription payments from the DAOs treasury. The approval for the automic recurring subcription approval will come in the form of a governance proposal. The subcription payment will allow for monthly recurring payments until the subscription in canceled. If funds are not avaible at the time of paymnet, all of the DAO functions except for paying the subscription will be locked. This milestone will make it easier for the DAOs to pay the subscription and not need to approve a proposal every month.  |  

## Future Plans

> Societal plans to launch its own parachain and be the go to DAO Creation and Mangament platofrm for Polkadot and all of web3. We believe that this subscription pricing system will be a great onramp of DAOs from other ecosystems into Polkadot, as the organization members do not have to purchase the Societal token to participate in on-chain transactions. This will reduce the barrier for these DAOs to use a governace scaling solution for their organization, such as Societal. This subscription payment system can also be used by many substrate chains to reduce this barrier adoption as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Societal plans to launch its own parachain and be the go-to DAO Creation and Management platform for Polkadot and all of web3. We believe that this subscription pricing system will be a great on-ramp of DAOs from other ecosystems into Polkadot, as the organization members do not have to purchase the Societal token to participate in on-chain transactions. This will reduce the barrier for these DAOs to use a governance scaling solution for their organization, such as Societal. This subscription payment system can also be used by many substrate chains to reduce this barrier adoption as well.
```
